#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
want to write out an algorithm by which i would generate and simplify fci
 matrix
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 
\series bold
determine size of fci matrix.

\series default
 i believe this would be done by supposing i have N electrons and 2m orbitals
 and determining how many excitations it is possible to make from a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

ground state
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 configuration, thereby determining the dimension of the fci matrix.
 
\series bold
not sure how to make this calculation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 
\series bold
for each excitation level, construct all determinants possible in an occupation
 number rep and store them as sets.

\series default
 For example, consider our h6 system of 6 e- in the minimal basis of 6 orbs
 (each spatial orb fits two spin orbs), so for example, a singly excited
 state would be (1,2,3,4,5,12) or (-1,1,-2,2,-3,6) with the - sign denoting
 spin down e-.
 a doubly excited state could be (1,2,3,4,11,12) or (-1,1,-2,2,-6,6).
 the mel of these two would be denoted as 
\begin_inset Formula $\left\langle \Psi_{6}^{12}\left|O_{1}+O_{2}\right|\Psi_{5,6}^{11,12}\right\rangle $
\end_inset

.

\series bold
 i have reviewed the fock space in second quantization and that has helped
 a lot.
 but still struggling to understand how both 
\begin_inset Formula $\left\langle \Psi_{6}^{12}\left|O_{1}+O_{2}\right|\Psi_{5,6}^{11,12}\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $\left\langle \Psi_{5}^{11}\left|O_{1}+O_{2}\right|\Psi_{5,6}^{11,12}\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 and many other possible mels of this form with presumably different values
 would all fit into the individual fci mel 
\begin_inset Formula $\left\langle \Psi_{i}^{r}\left|O_{1}+O_{2}\right|\Psi_{i,j}^{r,s}\right\rangle $
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 the actual evaluation of such mels in second quantization will be simple,
 implementing, for example, 
\begin_inset Formula $a_{12}^{\dagger}$
\end_inset

 as (12,1) and 
\begin_inset Formula $a_{6}$
\end_inset

 as (6,0) with the tuple denoting (orb to be acted on, 1 for creation and
 0 for annhilation) and then 
\series bold
i have the 1e- and 2e- operators already given to me in presumably a det
 basis, which i don't compeletely understand how to use these given arrays
 based off my bolded confusion in 2
\series default
; my review of the fock space in second quantization was helpful in figuring
 this out along with the how i will compute the associated phase factor.

\series bold
 i think i will implement the condon rules to reduce and simplify the individual
 fci elements that i need to compute, before i do the computationally intensive
 portion of computing the mels in second quantization?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 use numpy to diagonalize the fci matrix and then proceed to the next step
 of the project, which is figuring out a more efficient diagonalization
 method.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
i am beginning to figure out using dictation to visualize physics in latex,
 as you can see above.
 i think this will be a very helpful conceptual tool for me and also a helpful
 way for you to better understand my questions.
 i am just mentioning this to emphasize that there should no longer be any
 barriers for me with visualizing physics in latex; so if you feel that
 something needs more visualization to make what dam asking make mar sense,
 that should be es for me to do.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
i dictated the final portion of the last sentence, so actually let me know
 if there is any trouble for you with understanding it.
 for example, i'm was recognized as dam, so sounding my dictation excerpt
 out is helpful.
 if the dictation of sentences is incomprehesible, i will go back to typing
 which is a bit slower for me; but leaving you confused about what i mean
 when i'm dictating is a waste of time and it not that much of a burden
 to type out sentences; dictating them is just a bit faster, so i wanted
 to try it out and see if you can understand it.
 
\series bold
your feedback on your ability to comprehend my dictation would be appreciated,
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
